[SDK-2856] Update QS for Go webapp (#9898)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/webapp/golang/01-login.md

<%= include('../../../_includes/_logout_url', { returnTo: 'http://localhost:3000' }) %>

## Configure Go to use Auth0

> ### Download Dependencies

Reviewer: Typically for 2nd/3rd level headings, use a sentence-case format in line with the [writing guide](https://github.com/auth0/docs/blob/master/STYLEGUIDE.md#formatting).

I would have a scan over all the other headings in the doc and ensure the formatting aligns.

> Let's start by adding a `go.mod` file listing all the dependencies we will be using.

Reviewer: See my later comment around conciseness. Also, be wary of using 'we', and favour 'you'. Or better, write it out (see [voice](https://github.com/auth0/docs/blob/master/STYLEGUIDE.md#voice) in the style guide.

Something like:

```suggestion
Start by adding a `go.mod` file to list all the dependencies to be used.
```

```text
// go.mod

module 01-Login

go 1.16

require (
  github.com/coreos/go-oidc/v3 v3.1.0
  github.com/gin-contrib/sessions v0.0.3
  github.com/gin-gonic/gin v1.7.4
  github.com/joho/godotenv v1.4.0
  golang.org/x/oauth2 v0.0.0-20200107190931-bf48bf16ab8d
)
```

We can now make the dependencies available for us by running the following shell command:

```shell
go mod download
```

::: note
This example uses `gin` for routing, but you can use whichever router you want.
:::

### Configure your application

To begin, let's create a `.env` file within the root of your project directory to store our sample application's

> configuration and fill in the environment variables:

Reviewer: Consider more concise, action-orientated language for quickstarts. Sentences elsewhere in the same doc have more of a bias towards this.

Also, a suggestion for the end that rids the apostophe and makes it a bit easier to read/say.

```suggestion
Create a `.env` file within the root of the project directory to store the app configuration, and fill in the environment variables:
```

```sh
# The URL of our Auth0 Tenant Domain.
# If you're using a Custom Domain, be sure to set this to that value instead.
AUTH0_DOMAIN='${account.namespace}'

# Our Auth0 application's Client ID.
AUTH0_CLIENT_ID='${account.clientId}'

# Our Auth0 application's Client Secret.
AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET='${account.clientSecret}'

# The Callback URL of our application.
AUTH0_CALLBACK_URL='http://localhost:3000/callback'
```

::: note
To load the environment variables from the `.env` file we'll be using 
[github.com/joho/godotenv](https://github.com/joho/godotenv).

> :::

Reviewer: Think this needs some punctuation as it took a few reads to understand

```suggestion
::: note
To load the environment variables from the `.env` file, you can use [github.com/joho/godotenv](https://github.com/joho/godotenv).
:::
```

    context.Background(),
    "https://"+os.Getenv("AUTH0_DOMAIN")+"/",
  )
  if err != nil {
    return nil, err
  }

  conf := oauth2.Config{
    ClientID:     os.Getenv("AUTH0_CLIENT_ID"),
    ClientSecret: os.Getenv("AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET"),
    RedirectURL:  os.Getenv("AUTH0_CALLBACK_URL"),
    Endpoint:     provider.Endpoint(),
    Scopes:       []string{oidc.ScopeOpenID, "profile"},
  }

  return &Authenticator{
    Provider: provider,
    Config:   conf,
  }, nil
}

// VerifyIDToken verifies that an *oauth2.Token is a valid *oidc.IDToken.
func (a *Authenticator) VerifyIDToken(ctx context.Context, token *oauth2.Token) (*oidc.IDToken, error) {
  rawIDToken, ok := token.Extra("id_token").(string)
  if !ok {
    return nil, errors.New("no id_token field in oauth2 token")
  }

  oidcConfig := &oidc.Config{
    ClientID: a.ClientID,
  }

  return a.Verifier(oidcConfig).Verify(ctx, rawIDToken)
}
```

### Setting up your application routes

Create a file called `router.go` in the `platform/router` folder. In this package you'll create a method to
configure and return our routes using [github.com/gin-gonic/gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin). You will be passing

> an instance of our `Authenticator` to the method, so it can be used within the `login` and `callback` handlers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an instance of `Authenticator` to the method, so it can be used within the `login` and `callback` handlers. 
```

## Configure Go to Use Auth0

### Download dependencies

Start by adding a `go.mod` file to list all the dependencies to be used.

```text
// go.mod

module 01-Login

go 1.16

require (
  github.com/coreos/go-oidc/v3 v3.1.0
  github.com/gin-contrib/sessions v0.0.3
  github.com/gin-gonic/gin v1.7.4
  github.com/joho/godotenv v1.4.0
  golang.org/x/oauth2 v0.0.0-20200107190931-bf48bf16ab8d
)
```

We can now make the dependencies available for us by running the following shell command:

```shell
go mod download
```

::: note
This example uses `gin` for routing, but you can use whichever router you want.
:::

### Configure your application

Create a `.env` file within the root of your project directory to store the app configuration, and fill in the 
environment variables:

```sh
# The URL of our Auth0 Tenant Domain.
# If you're using a Custom Domain, be sure to set this to that value instead.
AUTH0_DOMAIN='${account.namespace}'

# Our Auth0 application's Client ID.
AUTH0_CLIENT_ID='${account.clientId}'

# Our Auth0 application's Client Secret.
AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET='${account.clientSecret}'

# The Callback URL of our application.
AUTH0_CALLBACK_URL='http://localhost:3000/callback'
```

> ::: note

Reviewer 2: Not sure about the need for this note, as `godotenv` is already included as a dependency in the `go.mod` and is used in `main.go`.

Author: Removed in https://github.com/auth0/docs/pull/9898/commits/05615d4b3160ffc1aacae020d272098f81dc2d0a

</div>
```

## Handling Authentication Callback

Once users have authenticated using Auth0's Universal Login Page, they'll return to the app at the `/callback`
route that will be handled in the following `Handler` function:

```go
// web/app/callback/callback.go

package callback

import (
	"net/http"

	"github.com/gin-contrib/sessions"
	"github.com/gin-gonic/gin"

	"01-Login/platform/authenticator"
)

// Handler for our callback.
func Handler(auth *authenticator.Authenticator) gin.HandlerFunc {
	return func(ctx *gin.Context) {
		session := sessions.Default(ctx)
		if ctx.Query("state") != session.Get("state") {
			ctx.String(http.StatusBadRequest, "Invalid state parameter.")
			return
		}

		// Exchange an authorization code for a token.
		token, err := auth.Exchange(ctx.Request.Context(), ctx.Query("code"))
		if err != nil {

> 			ctx.String(http.StatusUnauthorized, "Failed to convert an authorization code into a token.")

Reviewer 2: Maybe keep the 'exchange' terminology (like it is in the comment at line 332) instead of using 'convert'?

Author: Reworded in https://github.com/auth0/docs/pull/9898/commits/05615d4b3160ffc1aacae020d272098f81dc2d0a

</div>
```

## Handling authentication callback

After our users return from authenticating with the Auth0's Universal Login Page, they'll return to our sample 

> application at our callback route, `/callback` that will be handled in the following `Handler` function:

Reviewer: Suggestion for conciseness:

```suggestion
Once users have authenticated using Auth0's Universal Login Page, they'll return to the app at the `/callback` route that will be handled in the following `Handler` function:
```

    if err := idToken.Claims(&profile); err != nil {
      ctx.String(http.StatusInternalServerError, err.Error())
      return
    }

    session.Set("access_token", token.AccessToken)
    session.Set("profile", profile)
    if err := session.Save(); err != nil {
      ctx.String(http.StatusInternalServerError, err.Error())
      return
    }

    // Redirect to logged in page.
    ctx.Redirect(http.StatusTemporaryRedirect, "/user")
  }
}
```

## Displaying User Information

You can access the user information via the `profile` you stored in the session previously.

```go
// web/app/user/user.go

package user

import (
  "net/http"

  "github.com/gin-contrib/sessions"
  "github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
)

// Handler for our logged-in user page.
func Handler(ctx *gin.Context) {
  session := sessions.Default(ctx)
  profile := session.Get("profile")

  ctx.HTML(http.StatusOK, "user.html", profile)
}
```

```html
<!-- web/template/user.html -->

<div>
	<img class="avatar" src="{{ .picture }}"/>
	<h2>Welcome {{.nickname}}</h2>
</div>
```

For information about the userinfo hash, see [User Profile](/users/concepts/overview-user-profile).

## Logging out

> To log the user out, you have to clear the data from the session and redirect the user to the Auth0 logout endpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log the user out, clear the data from the session and redirect the user to the Auth0 logout endpoint. 
```

This sample is using [js.cookie](https://github.com/js-cookie/js-cookie/tree/latest#readme) to cookie handling. You need to add `js.cookie.js` file in the `public` folder to use it.
:::

## Optional Steps

### Checking if the User is Authenticated

Let's create a middleware that will check if the user is authenticated

> or not based on if the `profile` is in the session:

Reviewer: Consider making this one line rather than split across two.

```suggestion
Create a middleware that will check if the user is authenticated or not based on the `profile` session key.
```

Not sure if I've referred to what "profile" is here (is it a session key?) but nevertheless, I think referring to it as a "thing" like this reads better; I'm sure you can use the right terminology here.

Author: Yes indeed, it's a session key:) Thank you! I updated this in https://github.com/auth0/docs/commit/c6d43624eeeab24f43bc84795f535075f946205d

```go
// platform/middleware/isAuthenticated.go

package middleware

import (
  "net/http"

  "github.com/gin-contrib/sessions"
  "github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
)

// IsAuthenticated is a middleware that checks if
// the user has already been authenticated previously.
func IsAuthenticated(ctx *gin.Context) {
  if sessions.Default(ctx).Get("profile") == nil {
    ctx.Redirect(http.StatusSeeOther, "/")
  } else {
    ctx.Next()
  }
}
```

> Finally, we can set up this middleware for any route that needs authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, set up this middleware for any route that needs authentication:
```

I think it also might need some instruction here. As in, how is the setup done? Something like:

```suggestion
Finally, set up this middleware for any route that needs authentication by adding it to the router.
```
